# Computational-Musicology

**Introduction**

For my corpus I would like to dive deep into soundtracks. Virtually any piece of music which is used or specifically written for a movie, tv series, documentary or game can be classified as a soundtrack. It is a typical subgenre which mostly has a niche fanbase and the music is generally of a longer length. And it is mostly served as an addition to media, but many people listen to this music standalone and visit concerts in which such soundtracks are performed. I chose it because I am personally a big fan of soundtracks and I am also creating soundtracks myself.  It would be interesting to found out what the similarities and differences between various movie soundtracks are, in terms of length, dynamics, the use of vocals or energy level. Possible comparisons could include: soundtracks for different types of media compared (games, movies, documentaries, games), soundtracks of arthouse movies vs mainstream movies; long vs short soundtracks; collections soundtracks of specific composers compared with the ones from other composers; comparisons of works of one specific composer; a comparison between the title track and the other supportive tracks within one specific score. 
I would have to make a rough selection of soundtracks, since there are so many. I think it would be best to create a corpus in which there is a huge variety between the style of the soundtracks to get the most interesting results. When one thinks of soundtracks, mainly orchestral pieces by Hans Zimmer or John Williams come to mind. They are so well known, because they feature in movies which are known by a large audience, like the soundtracks from Batman or Star Wars. But there are also soundtracks out there which include only a single instrument, or only electronic elements, like the track ‘’Tick of the Clock’’ by Chromatics, which features in the movie Drive and has been widely used in many other types of media.

**Explanation of Graphs**

I created two graphs which are forming a useful start to this portfolio and also shows the many interesting comparisons and analysis that can be made in this portfolio. First, i made a comparison of characteristic track features of two famous soundtrack composers: John Williams and Hans Zimmer. For both of them I used the ''This is'' playlist from Spotify. I made a visualization which shows if a song is major or minor, and showed the instrumentalness and valence levels for their tracks. The size of the circles show the energy level of the tracks. What you can clearly see already is that from both composers, most songs show high instrumentalness and low valence and this is most evident for Hans Zimmer. And he also has some tracks which score low in instrumentalness and low on valence, which I called ''sombre vocalization''. But he also has some outliers which are high on valence, on a level that the outliers of John Williams don't reach. This is what I called ''happy instrumentation''.  It is also clear that the majority is written in minor and that a large level of songs has an average energy level.

Secondly I made a scatterplot from the playlist ''Iconic Soundtracks'', which also consists soundtracks of various other composers and here I compared instrumentalness and energy. Here it is clearly shown again that most tracks score high on instrumentalness and have quite low energy levels. Again, certain outliers on both levels still exist. 
What I think is interesting from these analyses is that it shows that even two composers show quite some variety in the characteristics of their tracks, but that roughly speaking there are also similarities. I am interested to further investigate comparisons from other big composers and from main famous soundtracks in general, to find out more interesting differences and similarities. And I am also interested to further analyse specific outliers, to find out what is so different about them.
